Remove prometheus exec (#3512)
signalfx/splunk-otel-collector: docs/deprecations/migrating-from-prometheus-exec-to-prometheus.md

- [prometheus](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/prometheusreceiver) (reccomended)
- [lightprometheus](https://github.com/signalfx/splunk-otel-collector/tree/main/internal/receiver/lightprometheusreceiver) -- splunk specific, lighter resource usage)
- [simpleprometheus](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/simpleprometheusreceiver) -- recommended to use lightprometheusreceiver instead
- [sfx gateway prometheus remote write](https://github.com/signalfx/splunk-otel-collector/tree/main/internal/receiver/signalfxgatewayprometheusremotewritereceiver) -- unlikely to be needed, but supports a simplified remote-write endpoint, should you need to "invert" your scraper from pull to push.  Does not fully support histograms.  Writes in a signalfx compatible format.  Prefer to use native otlp for a push/server based receiver if at all possible

### Moving configuration to the prometheus receiver

`scrape_interval` and `port` are the only consistent parameters across `prometheus`, `lightprometheus`, and `simpleprometheus` receivers. They retain the same semantic meaning.

> The functionality and responsibility of instantiating and exposing and endpoint to be scraped from now lies with the end user, and is not supported in any of the current prometheus receivers.

Reviewer: This section should be replaced with a section on how to set up https://prometheus.io/docs/instrumenting/exporters/ separately and how to connect them to a prometheus receiver replacing prometheusexec receiver. I'm, as a user, don't worry about configuration differences between prometheus, lightprometheus, and simpleprometheus. Let's actually stick with suggesting prometheus receiver only. Otherwise, these instructions are not helping but rather confusing.

> The functionality and responsibility of instantiating and exposing and endpoint to be scraped from now lies with the end user, and is not supported in any of the current prometheus receivers.

Reviewer: These sections should be replaced with a section on how to set up https://prometheus.io/docs/instrumenting/exporters/ separately and how to connect them to a prometheus receiver replacing prometheusexec receiver. I'm, as a user, don't worry about configuration differences between prometheus, lightprometheus, and simpleprometheus. Let's actually stick with suggesting prometheus receiver only. Otherwise, these instructions are not helping but rather confusing.

Reviewer: Why federation is required instead of simply pointing a prometheus receiver to a manually instantiated Prometheus exporter https://prometheus.io/docs/instrumenting/exporters/ ?

# Removal of deprecated prometheusexec receiever
## Why is this happening?

> There exist [security concerns](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues/6722) using the promethusexec receiver.  All prometheus specific functionality should be supported in the "normal" prometheus (scraping) receiver, along with others

Reviewer 2: s/prometheusexec/prometheus_exec throughout

## If I'm using the prometheusexec receiver, what should I do?

> We recommend you migrate your configuration to use the [prometheus](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/prometheusreceiver) opentelemetry receiver.

Reviewer 2: The main reason someone would use the exec receiver is because it takes care of executing the exporter binary for them instead of needing to themselves. I think the node exporter is a standard example: https://prometheus.io/docs/guides/node-exporter/. Addressing this removal is more than updating their configuration to use the prometheus receiver. Believe Dmitry's commented to this effect as well

### Natively your metrics for scraping
The functionality and responsibility of instantiating and exposing an endpoint to be scraped from now lies with the end user, and is not supported in any of the current prometheus receivers.  The exact method of your migration
will depend on why you needed to use the `prometheus_exec` scraper in the first place.

> The easiest path would likely be to [enable federation](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/federation/) on your prometheus server, you can see our [prometheus-federation](./examples/prometheus-federation/README.md) example under [`examples/prometheus-federation`](./examples/prometheus-federation) in this git repository.  Ensure your endpoint is accessible from your otel collector, and feel free to ask in the [#otel-prometheus-wg](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C01LSCJBXDZ), [#otel-collector](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C01N6P7KR6W), or [#prometheus](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C167KFM6C) slack channels for any help.  You can also feel free to cut us an issue, or reach our to your support rep.

Reviewer 3: I am not familiar with this receiver, so maybe it is obvious to a user, but this kind of confuses me. I thought exec receiver would only be used if they wanted to export 3rd party format metrics as prometheus. Could we clarify when would it be better to leverage federation as a replacement for the exec recv? How does enabling federation help a user migrating away from the exec receiver?

> The easiest path would likely be to [enable federation](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/federation/) on your prometheus server, you can see our [prometheus-federation](./examples/prometheus-federation/README.md) example under [`examples/prometheus-federation`](./examples/prometheus-federation) in this git repository.  Ensure your endpoint is accessible from your otel collector, and feel free to ask in the [#otel-prometheus-wg](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C01LSCJBXDZ), [#otel-collector](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C01N6P7KR6W), or [#prometheus](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C167KFM6C) slack channels for any help.  You can also feel free to cut us an issue, or reach our to your support rep.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The easiest path would likely be to [enable federation](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/federation/) on your prometheus server, you can see our [prometheus-federation](./examples/prometheus-federation/README.md) example under [`examples/prometheus-federation`](./examples/prometheus-federation) in this git repository.  Ensure your endpoint is accessible from your otel collector, and feel free to ask in the [#otel-prometheus-wg](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C01LSCJBXDZ), [#otel-collector](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C01N6P7KR6W), or [#prometheus](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C167KFM6C) slack channels for any help.  You can also feel free to cut us an issue, or reach out to your support representative.
```
